gcf ablation study experiment (#7)
SpecialeBajs/speciale-rapport: article/Experiment/GCF-ablation-study.tex

> \subsection{Ablation study for GCF}

Reviewer: burde man egentlig ikke generelt igennem kalde det aggregator function istedet for at kalde det layer combination.
Selve delen af methoden der står for det kan vist kaldes layer combination.
Men når man snakker om concat, summation eller en vilkårlig anden måde at gøre det på, er det så ikke aggregator funktionen i layer kombination modulet som man snakker om ?

Author: Jeg ville nok foretrække med at blive ved med at kalde det layer combination. Layer combination er jo kun metoden man benytter til at combinere de forskellige layers. Det er også det som de andre papers plejer at kalde det.

Meng Liu et. al does not present an ablation study for BiTGCF and GCF, which LightGCN showed is important with their to the ablation study conducted on NGCF \cite{lightgcn,BiTGCF}.
In this section we conduct an ablation study on GCF to get an understanding of the effect that the different parts of embedding propagation and layer combination have.
Examples of the equations can be seen on \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-sc}, \autoref{eq:GCF-only-IP} and \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-IP}.
\textit{GCF-minus-sc} can be seen on \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-sc} where the self-connection has been removed.

> On \autoref{eq:GCF-only-IP} only the inner product of the neighbor remains, and is called \textit{GCF-only-IP}

Reviewer: måske bytte om på rækkefølgen i de her sætninger sådan at det er ligesom den før.
overvej itemize. Den her måde at ramse dem op på virker ihvertfald lidt forvirrende.
det kommer vist også som en itemize senere. Så måske bare refer til equations der

\autoref{eq:GCF-minus-IP} the inner product has been removed and is called \textit{GCF-minus-IP}.
There are also examples where GCF utilizes weighted summation as layer combination as used in LightGCN.

> Weighted summation can be seen on \autoref{eq:lightgcn-sum}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of weighted summation can be seen on \autoref{eq:lightgcn-sum}.
```

> These are named \textit{GCF-sum}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The methods that use weighted summation all start with \textit{GCF-sum}.
```

\subsection{Ablation study for GCF}
\textcolor{red}{For GCF we have used the wrong adjacency matrix, that do not contain self connections. We are unsure what the difference will be in the result, but the results might change.}

> Meng Liu et. al does not present an ablation study for BiTGCF and GCF, which LightGCN showed is important with their regards to NGCF \cite{lightgcn,BiTGCF}.

Reviewer: burde have en mere detaljeret intro om hvad det er vi skal teste i den her ablation study
nævn hvad lightGCN og GCF bruger og hvad vi vil prøve og fjerne

Reviewer: ville måske give mening at have equations med igen for at vise hvad det er de gør og hvordan det ser ud når vi fjerne ting

    \item \textbf{GCF-sum}: GCF where the layer combination has been changed to weighted summation instead of concatenation.
    \item \textbf{GCF-only-IP}:  GCF where $e_i^{(k)}$ has been removed in \autoref{eq:GCF-embedding}, so that GCF's graph convolutions only considers the inner product of users and items.
    \item \textbf{GCF-sum-only-IP}: Implemented as GCF-only-IP except that the layer combination method used is weighted summation.
    \item \textbf{GCF-minus-IP}: GCF where inner product has been removed. \textcolor{red}{results missing}
    \item \textbf{LightGCN}: Original LightGCN as described in \autoref{subsubsec:LightGCN-embed-propagation}.
    \item \textbf{LightGCN-concat}: LightGCN with concatenation as layer combination. \textcolor{red}{results missing}
\end{itemize}

\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/GCF-NDCG-Yelp-ablation.png}
    \caption{NDCG@50 for the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/GCF-recall-Yelp-ablation.png}
    \caption{Recall@50 on the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study}
\end{figure}

> From \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that the methods that do not utilize concatenation as layer combination performs worse than the methods that utilize summation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that the methods that do utilize concatenation as layer combination performs worse than the methods that utilize summation.
```

\subsection{Ablation study for GCF}

> Meng Liu et. al does not present an ablation study for BiTGCF and GCF, which LightGCN showed is important with their regards to NGCF \cite{lightgcn,BiTGCF}.

Reviewer: their hvad ?

> In this section we conduct an ablation study on GCF to get an understanding on the effect of the different parts of the embedding propagation and layer combination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we conduct an ablation study on GCF to get an understanding of the effect that the different parts of embedding propagation and layer combination have.
```

Examples of the equations can be seen on \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-sc}, \autoref{eq:GCF-only-IP} and \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-IP}.

> On \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-sc} the self-connection has been removed and is called \textit{GCF-minus-sc}.

Reviewer: måske bytte om på rækkefølgen i de her sætninger sådan at det er.
overvej itemize. Den her måde at ramse dem op på virker ihvertfald lidt forvirrende
```suggestion
\textit{GCF-minus-sc} can be seen on \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-sc} where the self-connection has been removed.
```

Reviewer: det kommer vist også som en itemize senere. Så måske bare refer til equations der

> On \autoref{eq:GCF-only-IP} only the inner product of the neighbor has been contained, and is called \textit{GCF-only-IP}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On \autoref{eq:GCF-only-IP} only the inner product of the neighbor remains, and is called \textit{GCF-only-IP}
```

> \autoref{eq:GCF-minus-IP} has the inner product been removed and is called \textit{GCF-minus-IP}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\autoref{eq:GCF-minus-IP} the inner product has been removed and is called \textit{GCF-minus-IP}.
```

> There are also examples where GCF utilizes weighted summation as layer combination as used in LightGCN which can be seen on \autoref{eq:lightgcn-sum}.

Reviewer: er det GCF me weighted summation der kan ses på eq:lightgcn-sum ? sådan lyder sætningen ihvertfald

> There are also examples where GCF utilizes summation as layer combination as used in LightGCN which can be seen on \autoref{eq:lightgcn-sum}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are also examples where GCF utilizes weighted summation as layer combination as used in LightGCN which can be seen on \autoref{eq:lightgcn-sum}.
```

    \item \textbf{GCF-minus-IP}: GCF where inner product has been removed.
    \item \textbf{GCF-minus-IP-and-sc}: Same as GCF-minus-IP, but without self connections.
    \item \textbf{LightGCN-concat}: LightGCN with concatenation as layer combination.
    \item \textbf{LightGCN}: Original LightGCN as described in \autoref{subsubsec:LightGCN-embed-propagation}.
    \item \textbf{LightGCN-plus-sc}: LightGCN, but with self connections.
    \item \textbf{GCF-sum-only-IP}: Implemented as GCF-only-IP except that the layer combination method used is weighted summation.
    \item \textbf{GCF-sum}: GCF where the layer combination has been changed to weighted summation instead of concatenation.
    \item \textbf{GCF-sum-minus-sc}: Implemented as GCF-sum but without self connections.
\end{itemize}
\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/gcf-all-ndcg.png}
    \caption{NDCG@50 for the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study}
\end{figure}
\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/gcf-all-recall.png}
    \caption{Recall@50 on the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study}
\end{figure}

> From \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that the methods that do utilize concatenation as layer combination generally performs worse than the methods that utilize summation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that the methods that do utilize concatenation as layer combination generally performs worse than the methods that utilize weigthed summation.
```

> From \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that the methods that do utilize concatenation as layer combination generally performs worse than the methods that utilize weigthed summation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that the methods that do utilize concatenation as layer combination generally perform worse than the methods that utilize weigthed summation.
```

> It can also be seen that most concatenation methods learn faster than the summation methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also noticeable that most concatenation methods learn faster than the summation methods.
```

> For these experiments the dropout ratio is 0, so it could be because the concatenation methods hits overfitting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These experiments all have the dropout ratio at 0, so it could be because the concatenation methods starts overfitting.
```

> These experiments all have the dropout ratio at 0, so it could be because the concatenation methods starts overfitting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These experiments all have the dropout ratio set to 0, so it could be because the concatenation methods start overfitting.
```

> Additionally we can see that convolutions of items and user are beneficial, when using concatenation as layer combination, but decreases performance when using weighted summation as layer combination, while combining it with inner product.

Reviewer 2: Nok tilføje noget til at de stadig er værre end sum metoder uden ip

> This is likely because weighted summation is more sensitive to changes in the embedding, and using both neighboring convolutions and inner product can create contradictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is likely because weighted summation is more sensitive to changes in the embeddings, and using both neighboring convolutions and inner product can create contradictions.
```

    \label{fig:GCF-sum-NDCG-ablation-study}
\end{figure}
\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/gcf-sum-recall.png}
    \caption{Recall@50 on the compared methods that utilize summation as layer combination on the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-sum-recall-ablation-study}
\end{figure}
Looking at \autoref{fig:GCF-sum-NDCG-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-sum-recall-ablation-study} it can be seen that LightGCN performs better than the other GCF methods that utilize weighted summation as layer combination.
\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/gcf-ndcg-concat.png}
    \caption{NDCG@50 for the compared methods that utilize concatenation as layer combination on the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-NDCG-concat-ablation-study}
\end{figure}
\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/gcf-concat-recall.png}
    \caption{Recall@50 for the compared methods that utilize concatenation as layer combination on the Yelp2020 dataset.}
    \label{fig:GCF-recall-concat-ablation-study}
\end{figure}

> On \autoref{fig:GCF-NDCG-concat-ablation-study} and \autoref{fig:GCF-recall-concat-ablation-study} GCF without self connections performs a small amount better than GCF.

Reviewer 2: GENERELT, der er ikke noget der beskriver hvad x og y aksen er
Farverne er svære at adskille måske vi burde smide dem i paint og ændre dem selv?
